How Web Works Exercise


Part One: Solidify Terminology
In your own terms, define the following terms:

1: What is HTTP? Hyper Text Transfer Protocol: 
	The rules for how you get data to and from a server
2: What is a URL? Uniform Resource locator: 
	A web address referencing a web resource 
3: What is DNS? Domain Name System: 
	decentralized naming system for computers connected to a network
4: What is a query string? 
	A set of key value pairs that's appended to the end of a URL to pass information to the target server
5: What are two HTTP verbs and how are they different? 
	GET/POST. GET gets data from a server without manipulating the server in any way, and POST both gets data from the server and can end up modifying data on the server 
6: What is an HTTP request? 
	Request to a server that follows HTTP protocol
7: What is an HTTP response? 
	Response from an HTTP request, HTML/JS/CSS/ETC
8: What is an HTTP header? Give a couple examples of request and response headers you have seen.
	HTTP headers give additional information about a request or response. 
	Example of request headers are content-type, language and connection style
	Example of response headers are language, age, and server

What are the processes that happen when you type “http://somesite.com/some/page.html” into a browser?
	1: Local browser "resolves" the name into an IP address
	2: Local browser makes an HTTP/HTTPS REQUEST to said IP address, providing headers where appropriate
	3: Server replies with an HTTP/HTTPS RESPONSE, generally HTML and CSS, maybe some javascript
	4: Browser converts the HTML from the response into to the page that is displayed for the user

Part Two: Practice Tools
Using curl, make a GET request to the icanhazdadjoke.com API to find all jokes involving the word “pirate”
	curl -H "" "https://icanhazdadjoke.com/search?term=pirate"
	Responses (Couldn't figure out how to get a single entry? I looked through their API page at icanhazdadjoke.com/api)
	What did the pirate say on his 80th birthday? Aye Matey!
	Why couldn't the kid see the pirate movie? Because it was rated arrr!
	What does a pirate pay for his corn? A buccaneer!
	Why are pirates called pirates? Because they arrr!
	Why do pirates not know the alphabet? They always get stuck at "C"
Use dig to find what the IP address is for icanhazdadjoke.com
	dig https://icanhazdadjoke.com
	172.20.16.1 port 53



	